cloud: CMEK supports Alibaba Cloud (#22993)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/premium/dual-layer-data-encryption-premium.md

### Key management options

Dual-Layer Data Encryption uses your cloud provider KMS to manage master keys for data-at-rest encryption. You can choose between two key management options:

- **Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK)**

>     You create, own, and manage your AWS KMS master key. This option provides full control over encryption and is suitable for organizations with strict security requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You create, own, and manage your KMS master key. This option provides full control over encryption and is suitable for organizations with strict security requirements.
```

    > **Warning:**
    >

>     > You are fully responsible for maintaining the key's security and availability. If your CMEK is deleted or permanently damaged, your instance will malfunction and the encrypted data will become permanently unrecoverable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > You are responsible for maintaining the key's security and availability. If your CMEK is deleted or permanently damaged, your instance becomes unavailable, and the encrypted data becomes permanently unrecoverable.
```

>     > You are fully responsible for maintaining the key's security and availability.  If your Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK) is deleted or permanently damaged, your instance will malfunction and the encrypted data will become permanently unrecoverable. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > You are fully responsible for maintaining the key's security and availability. If your CMEK is deleted or permanently damaged, your instance will malfunction and the encrypted data will become permanently unrecoverable. 
```

## Limitations

> - Currently, this feature only supports AWS KMS and Alibaba Cloud KMS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Currently, this feature supports AWS KMS and Alibaba Cloud KMS.
```

To use your own encryption key, take the following steps:

1. Create a symmetric encryption key in your cloud provider KMS.

    Before proceeding, you must create a symmetric encryption key in your cloud provider KMS. Ensure the key resides in the **same region** as your planned TiDB service.  

>     - For AWS, see [Create a symmetric encryption KMS key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/create-symmetric-cmk.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

    - For AWS, see [Create a symmetric encryption KMS key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/create-symmetric-cmk.html).
```

    - For Alibaba Cloud, see [Understanding KMS keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/overview-of-key-management).

2. Configure the CMEK in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com):

    1. On the [**My TiDB**](https://tidbcloud.com/tidbs) page, click **Create Resource**.
    2. Select the {{{ .premium }}} plan and complete the basic configuration.
    3. In the **Dual-Layer Data Encryption** section, click **Enable**.
    4. Select **Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK)**, and then click **Add KMS Key ARN**.
    5. Copy the displayed JSON policy statement. This policy statement defines the required key access permissions for TiDB Cloud.
    6. In your cloud provider KMS Console, append this policy statement to your key policy.
        - For AWS, refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).

>         - For Alibaba Cloud, refer to [Manage Keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/manage-keys-2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

        - For AWS, refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).
        - For Alibaba Cloud, refer to [Manage Keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/manage-keys-2).

```

To use your own encryption key, take the following steps:

1. Create a symmetric encryption key in your cloud provider KMS.

>     Before proceeding, you must create a symmetric encryption key in your cloud provider KMS. Ensure the key resides in the **same region** as your planned TiDB service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The key must be in the **same region** as the planned {{{ .premium }}} instance.
```

>     Before proceeding, you must create a symmetric encryption key in your cloud provider KMS. Ensure the key resides in the **same region** as your planned TiDB service.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Before proceeding, you must create a symmetric encryption key in your cloud provider KMS. Ensure the key resides in the **same region** as your planned TiDB service.
```

    - For AWS, see [Create a symmetric encryption KMS key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/create-symmetric-cmk.html).
    - For Alibaba Cloud, see [Understanding KMS keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/overview-of-key-management).

2. Configure the CMEK in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com):

    1. On the [**My TiDB**](https://tidbcloud.com/tidbs) page, click **Create Resource**.
    2. Select the {{{ .premium }}} plan and complete the basic configuration.
    3. In the **Dual-Layer Data Encryption** section, click **Enable**.
    4. Select **Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK)**, and then click **Add KMS Key ARN**.
    5. Copy the displayed JSON policy statement. This policy statement defines the required key access permissions for TiDB Cloud.

>     6. In your cloud provider KMS Console, append this policy statement to your key policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    6. In your cloud provider KMS console, append this policy statement to your key policy.
```

        - For AWS, refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).

>         - For Alibaba Cloud, refer to [Manage Keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/manage-keys-2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - For AWS, see [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).
        - For Alibaba Cloud, see [Manage Keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/manage-keys-2).
```

#### Option 1: Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK)

Before you begin, make sure that you have created a symmetric encryption key in your cloud provider KMS. Then, take the following steps:

1. On the **Security** page of your {{{ .premium }}} instance, click **Enable** in the **Dual-Layer Data Encryption** section.
2. Select **Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK)**, and then click **Add KMS Key ARN**.
3. Copy the displayed JSON policy statement. This policy statement defines the required key access permissions for TiDB Cloud.

> 4. In your cloud provider KMS console, append this policy statement to your key policy.. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In your cloud provider KMS console, append this policy statement to your key policy.
```

  - For AWS, refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).

>   - For Alibaba Cloud, refer to [Manage Keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/manage-keys-2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

    - For AWS, refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).
    - For Alibaba Cloud, refer to [Manage Keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/manage-keys-2).

```

#### Option 1: Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK)

Before you begin, make sure that you have created a symmetric encryption key in your cloud provider KMS. Then, take the following steps:

1. On the **Security** page of your {{{ .premium }}} instance, click **Enable** in the **Dual-Layer Data Encryption** section.
2. Select **Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK)**, and then click **Add KMS Key ARN**.
3. Copy the displayed JSON policy statement. This policy statement defines the required key access permissions for TiDB Cloud.
4. In your cloud provider KMS console, append this policy statement to your key policy.

    - For AWS, refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).

>     - For Alibaba Cloud, refer to [Manage Keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/manage-keys-2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For AWS, see [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).
    - For Alibaba Cloud, see [Manage Keys](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/manage-keys-2).
```

Backups created from an encrypted {{{ .premium }}} instance are also encrypted. When you restore an encrypted backup, the new instance must use consistent encryption settings.

> **Note:**
> 
> Currently, you can only restore an encrypted backup to the **same account** and the **same region** as the original instance. Cross-region and cross-account restore operations are not supported.

> **Warning:**
>

> > You are fully responsible for maintaining the key's security and availability.  If your Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK) is deleted or permanently damaged, any backup data associated with this key will also be completely unrecoverable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> You are fully responsible for maintaining the key's security and availability. If your CMEK is deleted or permanently damaged, any backup data associated with this key will also be completely unrecoverable.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Restore a backup encrypted with a CMEK

If the backup is encrypted with a CMEK, make sure that the new instance can access the KMS master key during the restore. The key ARN remains unchanged.

To verify access, click **Check** to start the trust policy verification. TiDB Cloud then checks whether the authorized TiDB Cloud account in the key policy matches the account that is associated with the original backup:

- If the accounts match, no further authorization is required.
- If the accounts do not match, copy the provided key policy and update it in your cloud provider KMS. This update re-authorizes the key and ensures that the new instance can access it.

### Restore a backup encrypted with a Service-Managed Encryption Key

If the backup is encrypted with a Service-Managed Encryption Key, the restored instance automatically inherits the same key type. During restore, encryption is enabled by default, and the key type is set to **Service-Managed Encryption Key**.

## Rotate a Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK)

You can configure automatic CMEK rotation in your cloud provider KMS. No configuration updates are required in TiDB Cloud.

> - For AWS, see [automatic CMEK rotation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/rotate-keys.html).
> - For Alibaba Cloud, see [Key rotation](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/configure-key-rotation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- For AWS, see [automatic CMEK rotation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/rotate-keys.html).
- For Alibaba Cloud, see [Key rotation](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/configure-key-rotation).
```

Backups created from an encrypted {{{ .premium }}} instance are also encrypted. When you restore an encrypted backup, the new instance must use consistent encryption settings.

> **Note:**
> 
> Currently, you can only restore an encrypted backup to the **same account** and the **same region** as the original instance. Cross-region and cross-account restore operations are not supported.

> **Warning:**
>

> > You are fully responsible for maintaining the key's security and availability. If your CMEK is deleted or permanently damaged, any backup data associated with this key also becomes permanently unrecoverable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Warning:**
> 
> - Currently, you can only restore an encrypted backup to the **same account** and the **same region** as the original instance. Cross-region and cross-account restore operations are not supported.
> - You are responsible for maintaining the key's security and availability. If your CMEK is deleted or permanently damaged, any backup data associated with this key also becomes unrecoverable.
```
